to the weekly podcast for City Chapel at Slaughter Creek.
The world's okay as church, right here in Austin.
Get to know us better at CityChapelChurch.com.
We're so glad that you joined us today and hope you enjoy the message.
All right, so I do want to share a message with you guys.
I have to have my notes.
I'm not like Pastor Harry.
He can be up here with no practice.
It's been about four weeks ago that he asked me to come up here and share.
And so from that point on, I've been praying, I've been fasting, and I've been typing a bunch of stuff.
So everything's on my computer.
So today, I want to talk to you guys about a couple of animals.
I know for the past five weeks now, Pastor Harry's been preaching about living things, right?
He's been talking about seeds, and sea animals like Nemo, consumers, and producers, and predators, and all these things like it.
And it feels like we're in biology class, right?
Raise your hand.
He felt like you're in biology.
All right, Jonathan, thank you, Tiffany.
Yeah, it felt like you were in biology class.
So it's been really cool.
It's awesome that God can use his own creation to teach us about himself and about the kingdom of God.
So today we're going to follow that same path and we're going to talk about a couple of animals.
So welcome to Biology 101.
So one of the things I didn't get to do when I was in Biology, whether it was in high school or college, the five minutes I was there like Matthew used to say, that you were in college, right, for five minutes or so?
I was there longer than that.
But one thing I didn't ever get to do is I never got to dissect anything, whether it's a frog or I think rabbit, right?
And so did any of you guys ever get to do that?
Raise your hand.
How could you do that?
Okay.
Keep your hands raised.
I'm going to write your name and we're going to report you guys to Peter.
But I don't even know if they do that because Madden, I was talking to Madden, right?
Madden said that they bring it already cut up, I think.
They have a box of dead animals on their kitchen table.
All right, go see Pastor Harry and Rowena after service today.
All right, so I want to talk to you guys about a couple of animals.
The first animal, if we can show the picture of our first animal, and this one is the sheep.
If you can see that.
All right, the sheep.
So, oh, so you're already saying it.
Ah, it's so stinking cute, right?
What are words?
Stinking and cute.
You put that together and you can come up with this.
This cute little thing, it's cuddly.
It's probably soft as a pillow.
And then the next one is the goat.
Let's see a picture of the goat.
Ooh.
Not as cute as the sheep.
I mean, just look at the eyes.
And the hair is coarse like my hair.
And it's got the horns.
It's really, I don't know.
Every time I see a goat, I think it's going to hit me with those horns, right?
Let me ask you this.
Which of the two would you want to raise?
Which one is a goat?
How about a sheep?
Anybody for the sheep?
Sheep.
Yeah.
I would say the sheep.
If we can go back to the sheep.
The sheep, come on.
Buy sheer cuteness.
You get it sheer cuteness.
You would have to pick the sheep, right?
But let's go a little deeper and learn more about the sheep and the goat.
So we can just keep that picture up there.
So the sheep is gregarious, big word meaning that they like company.
They like to be among other sheep.
They like to be around, like I said, other sheep, they are inclined to follow a leader, like a shepherd.
The shepherd is one of the most unintelligent animal around.
You can say that they're pretty dumb.
The sheep, I'm sorry, the sheep.
Not the shepherd.
The sheep.
Okay, sheep is pretty dumb, okay?
Their intelligence is lined up with that of a pig.
And a pig, I'm sorry, but they're only good for two things, right?
Bacon, yes?
And baby back ribs.
Or pork ribs, I'm sorry, pork ribs with lots of barbecue sauce.
So yeah.
All right, so more about sheep.
They won't defend their territories.
They don't have any defensive attributes about them at all.
When they see danger, all they're gonna do is panic, ah!
And run.
That's all they can do, okay?
They tend to get in trouble.
They sometimes wander off from their flock and get lost or they'll get stuck in fences.
That's why we get that story with one that Jesus went after the one, because sheep is just dumb.
They're gonna get lost.
And the thing is they'll eat and drink anything, including things that are poisonous.
All right, here's the thing with sheep.
If they ever fall down, let's say they're walking, they trip on the rock and they fall on their back, or they happen to just be resting,
and then they fall in their back.
They're not gonna be able to get up, okay?
So two things are gonna happen to those that fall in their back.
They're either gonna get eaten by a predator or they're gonna starve to death unless a shepherd comes and helps them.
So they rely heavily on a shepherd to survive.
Now if you can go back to the goat, this is the face of one that only a mother's goat can love, right?
It's scary.
All right, the goat.
The goat is very intelligent.
If you put them in a pen, they're going to figure out how to get out of it.
Their intelligence is compared to that of a dog's intelligence.
So for someone to have seven dogs at the house, I know that I can tell you dogs are very intelligent.
They're also very agile and have great balance.
So if you see them on those pictures of goat on the rocky, steep mountains, they can do that.
And now, I don't know.
They're using them for yoga for some reason.
Get them on your back.
I don't know what that is all about, but okay.
Now they're very unpredictable.
They are very independent, the opposite of interdependent, something that Pastor Harris has been talking about this last few weeks.
They don't function very well in a group.
A goat will want to do its own thing.
Therefore shepherds have a hard time herding them together.
Now when faced with a predator, it will protect itself by using the horns to
charge you or use their hooves to bookie bookie okay can we have the picture of the two side by side so we have the sheep on my right let's get that straight and then the goat on my left which one knowing those things which one would you pick now would you pick the goat raise your hand if you want the goat raise your hand if you pick the sheep pick the sheep all right the world around us teaches us that we ought to be
the goat, okay?
You don't have to spend a lot of time on social media to see that the focus is about me.
Look at what I'm doing, look how good I look, look at what I've done.
The world teaches us that we need to work hard and be successful, just like a goat.
If it's to be, it's up to me.
So focusing on our own strength and getting it done.
Be good at sport and in school, be good at work.
Be a leader, okay, if you guys remember, goats don't want to be around other goats, they want to leave and lead, okay?
Do your own thing focus on you.
Society even created an acronym to promote that, okay?
Guys, you guys are all familiar with that.
G-O-A-T, greatest of all time.
Still, just promoting that it's all about me, okay?
But Jesus in a parable tells us that we should be the opposite.
Jesus loves to tell stories and one of the ways he tells stories with a parable.
And kids, if you guys remember a parable, it's just a short story with a powerful message.
So I want to share with you guys a parable from Matthew chapter 25 starting on verse 31.
And it should be on the screen also.
So if you guys can follow me there.
When the son of man comes in his glory and all the angels with him, he will sit on his glorious throne.
All the nations will be
gathered before him and he will separate the people from one another as a shepherd, separates the sheep from the goat.
He will put the sheep on his right and the goat on his left.
And we'll stop there for a second.
The right side, very important.
Significance signifies importance.
It's a place of honor and status.
When Jesus ascended into heaven after defeating death, he sat
on what side of God, the right side, okay?
It symbolizes strength and blessing.
When Jesus was crucified on the hill, there was two thieves that were crucified with him, okay?
The guy on the left kept mocking him.
He didn't believe in him.
He said, you know, if you truly are the Messiah, then save yourself and save us.
But the man on the right said that stop mocking him.
We deserve to be on the cross, but he doesn't.
And so,
Jesus said, on this very day, you will be with me in heaven.
So that's the right side.
Something that was interesting.
I was watching Pastor Harry's preaching the last five weeks.
I noticed that he tends to come over here when he's preaching a lot, right?
He'll start over here.
He'll kind of come over here and talk to you guys a little bit, but then he'll come over here a lot.
I thought that was really interesting.
Maybe it's because he loves all these people over here.
Maybe Miss Ruina sitting here all the time.
I don't know.
But there's something significant about that.
He is called to righteousness.
So he lives righteousness.
And I think it's just second nature for him to want to be on this side.
So I don't know.
Think about that.
All right.
Verse 34, then the king will say to those on his right, the sheep, come who you who are blessed by my father, take your inheritance, the kingdom, prepare for you since the beginning of the world or creation of the world.
For I was hungry and you gave me something to eat.
I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink.
I was a stranger and you invited me in.
I needed clothes and you clothed me.
I was sick and you looked after me.
I was in prison and you gave me, or I'm sorry, and you came to visit me.
Then the righteous will answer him.
Lord, when did we see you hungry and fed you or thirsty and gave you something to drink?
When did we see you a stranger invited you in or needing clothes and clothing?
When did we see you sick or in prison and go to visit you?
Then the king will reply, truly I'll tell you, whatever you did for one of the least of these brothers and sisters of mine, you did for me.
Then he will say to those on his left, the goats, depart from me.
You who are cursed into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels.
For I was hungry and you gave me nothing to drink.
I was a stranger and you did not invite me in.
I needed clothes and you did not clothe me.
I was sick and imprisoned and you did not look after me.
They also will answer, Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or stranger or needing clothes or sick or imprisoned and did not help you?
They will reply, truly I tell you, whatever you did not, or he will reply, truly I tell you, whatever you did not do for me, for one of the least of these you did not do for me.
Then the goats will go away to eternal punishment, but the righteous, the sheep to eternal life.
All right, so we have the sheep on the right and the goats on the left.
And this prayer was saying that the sheep will go to eternal life and the goats will go to eternal punishment.
So if Jesus was to come today, today was the day that he comes.
And let's say his throne is sitting here.
He will separate everybody in this room.
Some of you guys will go on the right.
Some of you guys will go on the left.
Some of you guys are already here on the right.
So you're good to go.
You guys on the left, you might want to come over here because this is the side to be.
I'm just kidding.
It doesn't work that way.
OK.
What's interesting is that both sides ask, when did they see Jesus and when did they do those things?
And if we can put up verse 37 real quick, I wanna focus on some key words.
Can we go?
Yeah, so, yeah, right here.
The word,
Let me go to minus.
So verse 37 is said, feed, give, invite, clothe, and visit.
These are all past tense words.
It signifies that it's already been done.
With the goat, verse 44, they were asking when did they see Jesus so that they can do those things?
They both asked when, and they both saw the need.
But the difference is that there was an action taken by the righteous.
It was all past tense.
fed, they gave, they invited, they closed, they visited.
It's all past tense.
They've already done it and didn't even think about it.
The curse saw the knee but did not act on it.
Now for some new believers, someone, folks that's never read this before, they might think that this is a list of things to do that you can check off so that you can enter in favor with God or even go to heaven, but it's not.
I don't want you guys to think that that's a list.
Because we are not saved by our works, our salvation is true, believing in what Jesus did on the cross.
John 14, 6 says, he is the way, the truth, and the life.
No one comes to the Father except through him.
Micah, where's Micah?
Micah's my go-to person on that scripture.
He knows it, word for word.
So every time I want to talk about John 14, 6, I say, Micah, will you recite that for me, okay?
But it's a truth that we echo time and time again in kids' church and now in kids' club.
All right.
So if we can go back to the picture of the goats and the sheep side by side.
Now sheep and a goat can do all these things, right?
But a goat will say, give me the list and I'll get it done.
But it's with the wrong intention.
They're doing it to benefit them.
And I know a lot of you guys are on TikTok and social media.
And you see all these guys that do all these great things.
They're giving money to the poor.
They're giving money to the people that can't afford groceries.
And it seems like on the outside, it seems like it's a great thing that they're doing.
But if you really think about it, they're doing it.
There's a reason behind it.
They're getting views and views being the money.
So they're doing it all for the wrong reason.
Now, how do you know that you're a sheep?
You don't know your sheep by your fruit.
And I'll give you guys an example.
Mr. Romeo, we're so thankful that he's back at City Chapel with us.
So if you guys haven't met Romeo, I encourage you guys introduce yourself to him because he's got an awesome testimony and it's sure to encourage you guys.
So when Romeo was in prison, Pastor Harry went to visit him a lot.
Now, Pastor Harry didn't do that with some kind of agenda.
He was simply visiting him out of love, okay?
Pastor Harry then posts on Facebook, hey, visiting my good old friend Romeo to promote himself or the church.
He did it out of love.
He wasn't doing it to earn points or do anything for it.
He did it because he has the fruit of the spirit in him.
And that's what I'm talking about.
You'll know that you are a sheet if you have the fruit of the spirit.
He has love, peace, joy, patience, faithfulness, goodness, gentleness, kindness, and self-control.
He is a sheep and he's been a sheep for a while.
One of the things I will always remember about Pastor Harry and Pastor Ruina is, and I don't know if it was, we've already launched as a church, but I think sometime the first year that we were gathering, we were getting ready for a fall fest at a park in Buda and there was a big storm that came and there was a lot of flooding.
So if you guys have ever been to the flaming farm, they have a barn on the top and it kind of goes down on a hill in their houses on the bottom.
Well, when that rain came, all the water just came down and it flooded their house.
And so they were basically homeless.
They had to be on top of the barn just to be saved because the pond or the lake was over flooded with water and they had to get out.
They were homeless.
They needed help.
But I remember Pastor Harry is calling everybody
to make sure that they were okay.
He was in need, they were in need himself.
There's a picture, I still remember of Rowena and the kids that are in the barn with a blanket or you guys are all wet.
But instead of focusing on themselves, they're worried about their flock.
People, you guys need anything.
And then I remember we were talking, I thought we were gonna cancel fall festival.
I said it's gonna be, it's probably gonna be wet, it's gonna be muddy.
But they said no, let's go ahead and do it.
It's for the community and let's get it done.
So that is,
fruit.
Now, it's all about the intention.
What are you doing?
Do you have an agenda?
It's about what's in your heart.
God looks at your heart.
This is what the toddlers in class are learning about with the story of David being anointed as king by Samuel.
God looks at the heart.
The God is strong-minded.
It cannot be led.
They prefer to lead.
They will fight with the shepherd.
They lead others a
It's content, it can be led, he knows the voice of his shepherd, and willing leave follows him.
Now, as kids pastors, mine in Priscilla's heart is to teach your kids to be like sheep.
But here's the thing, we only have your kids for about an hour, every Sunday on average, that's 40 hours in a year, not a lot of time.
Now, if I did my math right, there's a total of 8,736 hours in a year.
So when you compare the 40 hours that we have with your kids to the time that you guys have them, it's not a lot.
So we've actually started meeting with some of the kids and it's been awesome.
We're getting to know your kids and we get to ask them questions about God.
And so that's our way to try to help with that, but it's still not enough, right?
So you as parents, I'm talking to the parents now, you have the heavier load
of raising your kids to be like sheep.
Now here's another number to consider.
There's 24 hours in the day, everybody knows that.
Your kids gonna sleep for eight hours in that 24 hours, so you have 16 hours left.
Then they're in school for a minimum of, let's say seven hours, that gives you nine hours left.
Now subtract the extracurricular activities that they do, whether they're in club or they're sports, or they're just on their device, okay?
You have about six good hours with your kids in a day.
That's not a lot.
What do you do with those six hours to help them be like sheep?
Because kids, kids will emulate everything that you do as a parent.
They do it so much that it becomes second nature.
Madden got a beautiful dollhouse for Christmas, but the trick was it has to be built at all these parts.
Ms. Priscilla and I, they've been getting together since after Christmas and they're building this beautiful house.
Oh, it's up there.
It kind of looks like Pastor Harry and Rowena's house, same color, but it's been taking a lot of work.
So in that time that they've been getting together, we got into know Madden really well.
And one of the things that Priscilla and I thought was really interesting is Madden speaks and laughs like Rowena.
Without the exit though.
Right?
I say, hey, she sounds just like Reno, and she laughs.
But she thinks like Pastor Harry.
She's very detailed, right?
And so I say all of that to tell you guys that kids emulate you, OK?
Whatever you're doing, they're going to copy you.
Here's the thing.
If you're not going to church, if you're not making church important, they're not going to think that church is important.
If you're not praying with them, or you're not praying with each other and where they can see you, they're not going to pray.
Whatever you do with your faith, the kids are gonna emulate that.
Okay, so sheep race is sheep and goat race is goat.
Jesus wants us to be his sheep.
It's so important that we get this.
Again, a goat will want to hang on to their old life.
They have a knowledge of God, but they haven't completely given up their life.
Now, fate is not an allocart where you can pick and choose the things that you want and still hang on to your old life, okay?
It's kinda like this.
If you go to a restaurant in heaven, it goes,
Thank you for choosing heaven, can I help you?
Yes, I'll take your special salvation.
And from my side, I'll take a big bowl of grace.
Okay, would you like to try repentance today?
Oh, no, thank you.
But can you make sure that there's a lot of mercy in the bag?
Thank you.
It's not like that, right?
You have to choose.
You're gonna be on this side of the righteous or here on the left.
As earlier, I said, we're going to talk about two animals, but I discovered another one.
If you can show a picture of the show, it's not cute at all.
This is called a show.
This is an offspring between a sheep and a goat, so a show.
So if you look at it, it kind of looks like a sheep.
It's got the fluffy coat.
It's got the eyes of a sheep.
But if you look up, it's got some horns on the top that's kind of growing.
It's got the big nose of a goat.
So this is a show.
Everybody say, show it.
OK.
Here's the thing.
When a sheep and a goat mate naturally in out there.
OK.
Naturally, I'm saying naturally, OK. What's going to happen is that their offspring
will be a stillborn, it's not gonna make it, it's gonna die.
Here's the thing, God says, you're either a goat or a sheep, you can't be a sheep, right?
Okay?
When a person is not a sheep or a goat, they're a sheep, their spiritual life is stillborn.
I thought that was really interesting.
God woke me up at two o'clock in the morning and said, hey, it might be interesting
If there's a combination of two, I'm trying to figure out, hey, it'd be cool if it's called a show.
Now it can just share that with the church and it'll be funny.
But then that morning I looked it up and I found that.
I found this picture.
So here's the question.
Why is there a picture of a show if they can't make it?
Here's the thing.
Man in science put their hands into that.
They took chromosomes from each animal.
They took the things that it's not going to work.
And they added things and you get that.
This is the world saying that it's okay to be a show.
You can have the knowledge of God up here.
Pick and choose the things that you want and still live your old life.
It doesn't work that way.
This is not gonna make it, okay?
God says pick a side.
But again, Jesus was clear.
He's going to separate the two.
You are either a sheep or a goat.
Jesus wants all of you, not just the part that you're willing to give him.
He wants the good, the bad, and the ugly.
That's just not a movie.
I think that's a cowboy movie on my dad used to watch all of them.
It's not.
He wants the good, the bad, and the ugly.
And like Pastor Hare said, God can use them all for good.
We must completely surrender our life to Him.
The difference between a sheep and a goat is that a sheep has a willing spirit, okay?
Matthew 16, 25 says, for whoever wants to save their life will lose it, but whoever loses their life for me will find it.
So focus on you and not anyone else and don't follow God.
That's a goat mindset.
Let go of your life, follow God completely and have life forever.
That's the sheep.
So here's the good news.
God loves us all, the goat and the sheep.
The promise of eternal life is available for all who wants to follow God, even to the goats.
And if you think about it, we are all goats to begin with, right?
We are all sinners and have fallen short of the glory of God, so it's available for everybody.
But we must choose.
God is a gentleman.
He's not going to twist your arm, or like I tell kids at Kid's Church, you have to make the decision to follow Christ.
You can't stand on your parents' faith.
You have to choose.
And God is not gonna give you a prize, or a can, and say, hey, little girl, or little boy, if you can follow me, you can have all these things.
No, it has to come from the heart.
All of us must make that choice on our own.
To be a sheep, we must follow the great example that Jesus shows us.
He was a sheep himself, a lamb to be exact, because a lamb is just a baby sheep, a lamb without blemish and without sin that was sacrificed for our sin.
He freely gave up his life so that we can have ours.
He is asking us to do the same, to give up our life so that we might have a new and everlasting life.
So I want to pray with you guys.
God, thank you that you have a perfect plan for us.
Thank you for sending your son Jesus to die on the cross.
Thank you that he came down as an example.
He did not come down to be served, but to serve us.
The greatest example of that is when he served us by dying on the cross.
So help us, Lord.
to be more like sheep.
We've been standing way too long on our own strength and our own two feet, Lord God, help us to surrender everything, the good, the bad, and the ugly.
You have so much to give us, help us to raise children more like sheep so that we can all be with them.
We give you the praise and the glory in Jesus' name we pray.
Amen.
All right.
So before we end,
just to see if the kids were paying attention.
I'm going to ask them a couple of questions, and I got a blue ticket if you actually answer it correctly.
The first one is, what is a parable?
Raise your hand if you know the answer that Noah, Noah is excited.
That has a lesson.
Good job.
Here you go.
All right, I've got three more.
What book in the Bible was our parable from?
Corbin.
Matthew, good job.
Kids are awake today.
All right.
Can we have eternal life through works?
Zach.
Can I work hard enough, do enough good things to go to heaven?
Yes or no?
Good job.
All right, last question.
What is the only way to eternal life?
Micah.
Good job.
Here you go.
All right.
OK.
I know I'm wrapping things up.
I know we've got a couple of new guests in the back.
So come see me on Miss Priscilla, kids.
We have a VIP bag for you guys that got our core value posters in it and some treats.
So we're going to draw a couple of tickets real quick, so grab your ticket.
We're going to do the blue ticket real quick.
All right, ready?
The number is 1, 3, 5.
Is that you, Cruiser?
Good job.
Okay, come see me afterwards, okay?
Okay, last one for the blue one.
And if I can have the red bucket, 1, 2, 2.
Do you have it still?
All right, maybe you can bless somebody with that, okay?
There you go.
You got money, you got all sorts of stuff.
All right, for the adults now, real quick.
272, if that's your ticket, come see me afterwards.
All right, Sarah.
Come give this to her and then come see me.
I have a bag of treats for you afterwards.
All right, last one.
for the adults, 271.
What?
Maybe you can bless somebody with this.
All right, Pastor Harry, thank you.
Yeah, yeah.
All right, you give it up for Pastor Eddy and the kids.
Glad that they're teaching our kids every Sunday.
and worshiping with them.
I did want to say if you're new to City Chapel and you sat down, you should have got a card.
It looks like this.
It's a connection card.
If you could fill that out in the back and drop it off in one of these red boxes, we would appreciate that, or you can scan the QR code.
Just even as Eddie was teaching on salvation, if you made a decision to follow Christ, to put your faith in him,
You can mark that off on the back of this card and we'll reach out to you this week and let you know a little more about that and what some good next steps are for you.
Also, if you're a regular member of City Chapel, let's give financially to the Lord.
You can text any amount to 84321 and it'll allow you to set up a giving module on your phone.
And yeah, we really appreciate that.
And that's awesome.
Also, Ward says, thank you for the prayers.
He texts me during service.
He's doing better, and he also has your phone.
He has his wife's phones.
If you're trying to get ahold of Brenda, you're really texting Ward.
So anyway, don't say anything bad about Ward to Brenda during
during this time.
Wait till tonight to share your thoughts.
But no, thank you guys for joining us on Time Change Sunday and Kids City Sunday.
We're glad that you're with us and have a great week.
You're dismissed.